July 15th, six hours before
the client meeting.
Bob had been working the entire weekend
trying to get his application
to work on the dev servers.
It works perfectly on his laptop.
He had even added the extra features
the clients asked for,
but on the dev servers,
he is seeing a bunch of errors when
he tries to start the application.
He works all night, but he is not
able to fix it by morning.
With time running out, he reluctantly
informs Andrew about the situation.
Andrew calls for a WAR meeting at 8:00 AM.
He leaves Donald in charge of the meeting
while attending to a call from someone
from the higher management.
He does not look happy at all.
Bob is sweating profusely.
"The WAR room.
The one place I did not want to ever be in
especially this early in my career,"
Bob thought.
He felt as if he was on trial.
The next few moments going to decide his fate.
He takes a quick look at Andrew
who is pacing around nervously.
"Not looking good.
I have to fix this ASAP or I might get fired,"
thinks Bob.
The client demonstration was at 10:00 AM.
Bob glances at his watch.
It was 8:50 AM.
A little more than an hour until the client demonstration,
Bob shuddered at the thought of
having nothing to show during the call.
"I cannot let my team down.
What am I missing? I am sure the code is correct.
Why isn't this darn thing working anymore?"
Bob says,
trying to open his web application.
Is it the network?
Is it some permission issue
or was it something else entirely?
He had no clue.
He was panicking now.
Bob steals a quick glance at
Donald who is surprisingly calm.
"All right, now. No need to worry yet.
We still have time to save the day,"
says Donald.
For the first time in his short career,
Bob finds Donald's presence to be reassuring.
"Since everything is working
as expected on your laptop,
we can rule out an issue with the code.
Let's narrow it down to
the development environment.
Perhaps the network,
environmental dependencies,
or maybe an issue with
the configuration," he adds.
For the next hour, Bob and Donald go through
Fall the possibilities one after the other.
"Let's go over the difference
between the working
and the broken environments," says Donald.
"Have you checked the actual
network connectivity
between the app and the DB servers?
Are the ports open?"
"Yes.
I had them checked by jacqui.
I also ran a telnet test and found
the connection to work," replies Bob.
"How about the permissions?
Which user are you trying to run it as?"
asks Donald.
"I thought of that too.
On my laptop, I am running the app
with my own user account,
but in the dev setup,
I have created a service account called Mercury
and I'm trying to run it with this user,"
Bob replies.
Bob shows Donald an error
message on his screen.
"From this particular error,
I still think the app has trouble
connecting to the database,
but, as I said, the ports are open
between the two servers".
All of a sudden it hit him.
Bob freezes for a few seconds.
He knew what the solution was.
"How could I have missed that?"
He thinks to himself, sighing in relief.
"I have got it just in the nick of time too.
I have one hour to get it running,"
Bob says triumphantly.